Reading 4

Turner 2003:
	The point of their research in this article was to go beyond the traditional way of understanding a species. Traditionally they view area relationships with imagery-based habitat classifications to estimate species losses associated with the changes in land cover and land use, but the researches decided to go beyond this and figure out which species are being lost and why. They also acquired evidence that indicated that we might be close to improving the detection of species, ecological communities and the patterns associated with species richness by using remote sensing. They then explained the technologies used and examples of how the technology was applied. IKONOS, Hyperion instrument (hyperspectral), AVIRIS, CASI, AVHRR, MODIS and LVIS are some of the technologies that they used. I think what they are trying to get across was well presented because it wasn't too dense where it would be hard to follow along. Plus I thought Table 1 was very comprehensive and provided good examples of which technologies can be used for what. I thought the last line was very interesting when they said that biodiversity loss will not wait for the development of new graduates or undergraduates to the point where they can influence environmental policy because it sort of gives the article a good push at the end to recognize what they are saying and how pertinent it is to get this going as soon as possible.


Liang 2014:
	This was a very long article, but it sort of hit close to home at least for me. The main thrust of the article was about the Mountain Pine Beetle and how it has been feeding on our trees for the past 11 years (thats how far back their data went). They talk about how we can monitor the infestation and forest disturbances. They used Landsat time series stacks among other methods. They selected only 106 training samples, but stated that they selected the relatively small number of training samples because many studies suggested that trajectory-based methods perform well when trained with a relatively small sample size, but then they put their total to 1060 samples. But for the new samples they only analyzed their disturbance types in the three yearss that NAIP imagery was available. Their presentation of their findings were very thorough in my opinion and the only thing is that I had to look up some things to be able to understand what they were portraying like one thing was Figure 4 the Tukey Boxplot. I found this article very interesting especially because it was based in Colorado, but also because I am an avid fly fisherman and travel to Montana frequently to fish and I have seen over the past 8-10 years the affect of the Mountain Pine Beetle.  
